= JSON Mapper
by Trond Arve Nordheim -
{Binary Marbles}[http://www.binarymarbles.com/]

== NOTICE

This is a project under heavy development. The API is far from stable yet, and
the code is very unclean in some places. The API won't be considered stable
until full tests are available verifying that all functionality is working as
expected.

== Description

A Ruby gem for mapping data from JSON data structures into Ruby class representations.

== Features

* Simple one to one mappings
* Complex mappings (many to one)
* Associations
* Type checking

== Usage

=== Simple one to one mapping
  class Model

    include JSONMapper

    # Map the "id" attribute from the JSON data structure to the id attribute of the class,
    # using Integer as the data type
    json_attribute :id, Integer

    # Map the "model_title" attribute from the JSON data structure to the title attribute of
    # the class, using String as the data type
    json_attribute :title, :model_title, String
  
  end

=== Complex many to one mapping
  class Model

    include JSONMapper

    # Map the "id", "model_id" or "modelid" attribute (whatever is located first) from the
    # JSON data structure to the id attribute of the class, using Integer as the data type
    json_attribute :id, [ :id, :model_id, :modelid ], Integer

  end

=== Associations
  class AssociatedClass

    include JSONMapper

    # Map the "id" of the JSON data structure to the id attribute of the class, using
    # Integer as the data type
    json_attribute :id, Integer

  end

  class Model

    include JSONMapper

    # Map the "association" attribute from the JSON data structure to an instance of
    # the AssociatedClass class, mapping it to the association attribute of the class.
    json_attribute :association, AssociatedClass 

    # Map all entries in the "associations" array from the JSON data structure to
    # an array of AssociatedClass instances, mapping them to the associations attribute
    # of the class
    json_attributes :associations, AssociatedClass 

  end

== Requirements

* {json}[http://rubygems.org/gems/json]

== Installation

 $ gem install json_mapper

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Trond Arve Nordheim. See LICENSE for details.
